# IDYOLO
Instruments are crucial in industrial monitoring scenarios such as substations and factories. However, their automatic detection remains challenging due to three key issues: 1) the diverse morphologies lead to poor adaptability of general detectors; 2) the complex background of industrial scenes inhibits the feature learning of instrument targets; 3) the limited scale and single scene coverage of existing public datasets restrict the generalization ability and fair comparison of algorithms. To address these challenges, this study proposes an enhanced YOLO11 instruments detection framework and constructs and publicly releases a large-scale industrial instrument(IM) dataset. First, we design a Hierarchical Residual Context Module (HRCM) that captures hierarchical context information through residual connections. Thereby enhancing adaptability to variousmorphologies. Second, Gated Compact Convolution(GCC) is designed based on lightweight convolution and adopts a gating mechanism to focus on key instrument features while compressing parameters through a bottleneck structure. Finally, we designed a Dynamic Threshold Focused Loss (DTFL): extending the idea of adaptive loss, DTFL dynamically adjusts weights to suppress susceptible background samples and pay more attention to instrument targets. Experimental results on the IM dataset show that the proposed framework outperforms the baseline YOLO11 by 3.0\% in recall, 4.5\% in precision, 1.7\% in mAP50, and 1.7\% in mAP50:90. This work enhances the detection capability of instruments in industrial environments and provides a standardized dataset for subsequent research. In addition, our Instruments detection VIoT system, deployed in the field, has demonstrated outstanding performance.The code and dataset will be released after the paper is published.
